.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0
.\" License-Filename: LICENSES/preferred/GPL-2.0
.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH "ALFRED" "8" "Sep 21, 2013" "Linux" "Almighty Lightweight Fact Remote Exchange Daemon"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man alfred.8 -Tutf8
.\" Retrieve format warnings with
.\" man --warnings alfred.8 > /dev/null
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ad l
.SH NAME
alfred \- Almighty Lightweight Fact Remote Exchange Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alfred [\fIoptions\fP]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
alfred is a user space daemon for distributing arbitrary local information over
the mesh/network in a decentralized fashion. This data can be anything which
appears to be useful - originally designed to replace the batman-adv
visualization (vis), you may distribute hostnames, phone books, administration
information, DNS information, the local weather forecast ...
.PP
alfred runs as daemon in the background of the system. A user may insert
information by using the alfred binary on the command line, or use special
programs to communicate with alfred (done via unix sockets). alfred then takes
care of distributing the local information to other alfred servers on other
nodes. This is done via IPv6 link-local multicast, and does not require any
configuration. A user can request data from alfred, and will receive the
information available from all alfred servers in the network.
.PP
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Display a brief help message.
.TP
\fB\-u\fP, \fB\-\-unix-path\fP \fIpath\fP
path to unix socket used for client-server communication.
.
.SH CLIENT OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-set\-data\fP \fIdata\-type\fP
Sets new data to distribute from stdin for the supplied data type (0\-255).

Note that 0 - 63 are reserved (please send an e-mail to the authors if you want
to register a datatype), and can not be used on the commandline. Information
must be periodically written again to alfred, otherwise it will timeout and
alfred will forget about it (after 10 minutes).
.TP
\fB\-r\fP, \fB\-\-request\fP \fIdata\-type\fP
Collect data from the network and prints it on the network
.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-verbose\fP
Show extra information in the data output
.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-force\fP
Start server even when batman-adv or interface(s) are not yet available.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP, \fB\-\-req\-version\fP \fIversion\fP
Specify the data version set for \fB\-s\fP

Skipping the parameter entirely has the same effect as setting the parameter
to 0 ('\fB\-V\fP 0').
.TP
\fB\-M\fP, \fB\-\-modeswitch\fP \fImode\fP
.nf
\fBprimary\fP
    Switch daemon to mode primary
\fBsecondary\fP
    Switch daemon to mode secondary
.fi
.TP
\fB\-I\fP, \fB\-\-change\-interface\fP \fIinterface\fP
Change the alfred server to use the new \fBinterface\fP(s)
.TP
\fB\-B\fP, \fB\-\-change\-bat\-iface\fP \fIinterface\fP
Change the alfred server to use the new \fBbatman-adv interface\fP
.TP
\fB\-S\fP, \fB\-\-server\-status\fP
Request server status information such as mode & interfaces\fP
.
.SH SERVER OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fP, \fB\-\-interface\fP \fIiface\fP
Specify the interface (or comma separated list of interfaces) to listen on.
Use 'none' to disable interface operations.
.TP
\fB\-b\fP \fIbatmanif\fP
Specify the batman-adv interface configured on the system (default: bat0).
Use 'none' to disable the batman-adv based best server selection.

The interface option \fB\-i\fP is optional. If interface 'none' is specified, the
alfred daemon will not communicate with other alfred instances on the
network unless the interface list is modified at runtime via the unix socket.
The \fB\-b\fP option is optional, and only needed if you run alfred on a
batman-adv interface not called bat0, or if you don't use batman-adv at all
(use '\fB\-b\fP none'). In this case, alfred will still work but will not be
able to find the best next primary server based on metrics.
.TP
\fB\-m\fP, \fB\-\-primary\fP
Start up the daemon in primary mode, which accepts data from secondaries and
syncs it with other primaries.

alfred servers may either run as primary or secondary in the network. Primaries
will announce their status via broadcast, so that secondaries can find them.
Secondaries will then send their data to their nearest primary (based on TQ).
Primaries will exchange their data (which they have received from secondaries or
got on their own) with other primaries. By using primaries and secondaries,
overhead can be reduced while still keeping redundancy (by having multiple
primaries). Obviously, at least one primary must be present in the network to
let any data exchange happen. Also having all nodes in primary mode is possible
(for maximum decentrality and overhead).
.TP
\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-update-command\fP \fIcommand\fP
Specify command to execute on data change. It will be called with data-type list
as arguments.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-sync-period\fP \fIperiod\fP
Specify alfred synchronization period, in seconds. If not specified, the default
ALFRED_INTERVAL setting of 10 seconds will be used. Fractional seconds are
supported.
.TP
\fB\-4 \fIgroup-address\fP \fP
Specify the IPv4 multicast group address and enable IPv4 data-sharing (disabling
IPv6 communication). This option is required on systems that do not support IPv6
addressing.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start an alfred server listening on bridge br0 (assuming that this bridge
includes the batman interface bat0):
.br
\fB     alfred \-i br0 \-m\fP
.br

Send data to the alfred server and store it under id 65:
.br
\fB     cat /etc/hostname | alfred -s 65\fP

Retrieve all data stored as id 65 from all connected alfred servers:
.br
\fB     alfred -r 65\fP
.nf
     { "fe:f1:00:00:01:01", "OpenWRT\-node\-1\\x0a" },
     { "fe:f1:00:00:02:01", "OpenWRT\-node\-2\\x0a" },
     { "fe:f1:00:00:03:01", "OpenWRT\-node\-3\\x0a" },
.fi
.br
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR batadv-vis (8),
.BR batctl (8)
.SH AUTHOR
alfred was written by Simon Wunderlich <sw@simonwunderlich.de> and Sven Eckelmann <sven@open-mesh.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Simon Wunderlich <sw@simonwunderlich.de> and Sven Eckelmann <sven@open-mesh.com>.
