.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH "ALFRED-GPSD" "8" "Oct 04, 2013" "Linux" "Alfred GPS distribution server"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man batadv-vis.8 -Tutf8
.\" Retrieve format warnings with
.\" man --warnings batadv-vis.8 > /dev/null
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ad l
.SH NAME
alfred\-gpsd \- Alfred GPS distribution server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alfred\-gpsd [\fIoptions\fP]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
alfred\-gpsd can be used to distribute GPS location information over
your batman-adv mesh network. It reads the current location from gpsd,
or a fixed location from the command line, and distributes this
information via alfred. By gathering this local information, any
alfred-gpsd node can get location information about other nodes.
.PP
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Display a brief help message.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-server\fP
Start up in server mode. This server will read the current location
from gpsd and set it in alfred via unix socket. The alfred server must
run too to get this information set.
.TP
\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-location <lat>,<lon>,<alt>\fP
Rather than read the current location from gpsd, use a fixed location.
.TP
\fB\-g\fP, \fB\-\-gpsd server[:port[:device]]\fP
Specify the server hostname and optional port of where gpsd is
listening. Additionally, a specific device connected to gpsd can be specified.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start an alfred\-gpsd server which is fetching GPS data from the local gpsd.
.br
\fB     alfred\-gpsd \-s\fP
.br

Start an alfred\-gpsd server with a fixed location
.br
\fB     alfred\-gpsd \-s \-l 48.858222,2.2945,358\fP
.br

To get a list of GPS locations, in JSON format:
.br
\fB     alfred-gpsd\fP
.nf
[
  { "source" : "f6:00:48:13:d3:1e", "tpv" : {"class":"TPV","tag":"RMC",
    "device":"/dev/ttyACM0","mode":3,"time":"2013-10-01T10:43:20.000Z",
    "ept":0.005,"lat":52.575485000,"lon":-1.339716667,"alt":122.500,
    "epx":10.199,"epy":15.720,"epv":31.050,"track":0.0000,"speed":0.010,
    "climb":0.000,"eps":31.44} },
  { "source" : "8e:4c:77:b3:65:b4", "tpv" : {"class":"TPV",
    "device":"command line","time":"2013-10-01T10:43:05.129Z",
    "lat":48.858222,"lon":2.2945,"alt":358.000000,"mode":3}
  }
]
.fi
.br
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR alfred (8),
.BR gpsd (8)
.BR gpsd_json(5)
.SH AUTHOR
alfred\-gpsd and this Manual page was written by Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
